# Transport Layer

Data and commands are transported between the host and the slave(s) using a packet format as shown
below:

|               |               |               |               |               |               |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| STX           | SEQ/SLAVE ID  | LENGTH        | DATA          | CRCL          | CRCH          |



|               |                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| STX           | Single byte indicating the start of a message ­ 0x7F hex                                                                                                 |
| SEQ/Slave ID  | Bit 7 is the sequence flag of the packet, bits 6­0 represent the address of the slave the packet is intended for, the highest allowable slave ID is 0x7D |
| LENGTH        | The length of the data included in the packet ­ this does not include STX, the CRC or the slave ID |
| DATA          |  Commands and data to be transferred |
| CRCL, CRCH    |  Low and high byte of a forward CRC­16 algorithm using the Polynomial (X16 + X15 + X2 +1) calculated on all bytes, except STX. It is initialised using the seed 0xFFFF. The CRC is calculated before byte stuffing. |

## PACKET SEQUENCING

Byte stuffing is used to encode any STX bytes that are included in the data to be transmitted. If 0x7F (STX)
appears in the data to be transmitted then it should be replaced by 0x7F, 0x7F.

Byte stuffing is done after the CRC is calculated, the CRC its self can be byte stuffed. The maximum length of
data is 0xFF bytes.

The sequence flag is used to allow the slave to determine whether a packet is a re­transmission due to its last
reply being lost. Each time the master sends a new packet to a slave it alternates the sequence flag. If a slave
receives a packet with the same sequence flag as the last one, it does not execute the command but simply
repeats it's last reply. In a reply packet the address and sequence flag match the command
packet.

This ensures that no other slaves interpret the reply as a command and informs the master that the correct
slave replied. After the master has sent a command to one of the slaves, it will wait for 1 second fora reply.
After that, it will assume the slave did not receive the command intact so it will re­transmit it with the same
sequence flag. The host should also record the fact that a gap in transmission has occurred and prepare to
poll the slave for its serial number identity following the current message. In this way, the replacement of the
hosts validator by a fraudulent unit can be detected.

The frequency of polling should be selected to minimise the possibility of swapping a validator between polls.
If the slave has not received the original transmission, it will see the re­transmission as a new command so it
will execute it and reply. If the slave had seen the original command but its reply had been corrupted then
the slave will ignore the command but repeat its reply. After twenty retries, the master will assume that the
slave has crashed. A slave has no time­out or retry limit. If it receives a lone sync byte part way through
receiving a packet it will discard the packet received so far and treat the next byte as an address byte.
